## Introduction to docker: What docker is used for, what an image is and how to use postgres image from dockerhub to create an isolated database from our OS.

* Pipeline: Code that allow us to ingest data, apply some kind of transformation and output it to another
location/ database/ datawarehouse

* Docker allows for pipelines and database reproducibility in an isolated manner. Also, local experiments and integration tests (CI/CD)

* This reproducibility guarantees that we could replicate our environments on the cloud using kubernetes.


* We ran a container with the Ubuntu image with
a bash terminal as a initial state. This was done using the following syntax:

    * docker run -it ubuntu /bash

* Nevertheless, this command doesnt suit our interests because does not 'remember' some other parameters we entered once the container is initialized. That's why the concept of Dockerfile is introduced -> It allows us to further specify the initial state of our container by allowing custom package installion, command line instructions and entrypoints (whats executed when we enter the container).

* We created a dockerfile to showcase how different specifications lead to different initial 
states when we run the container. We built an image using a dockerfile, having as parameters the python image, that we wanted to install pandas and copy a pipeline we created into the container.

* As a final step we executed the pipeline inside the container (that is, as the container was running) and watched how it succesfully completed the job.

